This is gpg4win - the GUI Installer Builder for W32.

See also the file doc/README.en.txt.

Instructions:
=============

1. Download the source and binary packages that are required to build
   the installer:

   $ cd packages
   $ sh download.sh
   [...]
   $ cd ..

2. Configure the source tree for cross compilation:

   $ ./autogen.sh --build-w32

3. Build the installer:

   $ make

The installer will be made available in three files:

src/gpg4win-X.Y.Z.exe
src/gpg4win-light-X.Y.Z.exe
src/gpg4win-src-X.Y.Z.exe


Basic requirements
==================

A decent POSIX system is required for building this software as well
as GNU make.  We are using Debian GNU/Linux 7 (Wheezy), any other
POSIX system should work as well but you may run into problems due to
different toolchain versions.

To satisfy all needs of configure at least the following packages need
to be installed:

 build-essential (libc6-dev, gcc, g++, make)
 automake 1.11, autoconf (if building from GIT)
 mingw32
 mingw-w64
 mingw-w64-i686-dev
 mingw-w64-x86-64-dev
 nsis
 stow
 unzip
 texinfo
 imagemagick
 gs-common (gs)
 docbook-utils
 sharutils (uudecode for claws icon patch)
 gettext (msgfmt, dcgettext, gmsgfmt, xgettext for glib)
 libglib2.0-dev (glib-genmarshal, glib-compile-{resources,schemas})
 libgdk-pixbuf2.0-dev (gdk-pixbuf-csource)
 docbook-utils, ghostscript (claws-mail manual)
 texlive (you need most modules)
 texlive-latex-extra
 latex-xcolor (for the compendium)
 libqt4-dev-bin (in case pinentry-qt needs moc)


Building the Webpages
=====================

The website is in the dedicated branch "website" in the git reposity.
Checkout that branch and read the instructions:

  git checkout website


Development Branches
====================

The old version of gpg4win (version < 1.2) is since 1.1.3 tracked by
the GIT branch: gpg4win-1-branch.  Only important fixes will go into
this version.  The current version in the GIT master starts as version
1.9.



Adding new packages to the installer:
=====================================

This requires editing a couple of files; we might eventually automate
some of these tasks.  Here is a short run up:

1. Add constants for the package FOO into include/config.nsi.in .

2. Create 2 new installer scripts, named src/inst-foo.nsi and
   uninst-foo.nsi and add them to EXTRA_DIST in src/Makefile.am.

3. Add foo to one the variables gpg4win_bpgks (if foo should not be
   build be the gpg4win) or gpg4win_spkgs (if foo should be build by
   gpg4win) in src/Makefile.am .  Also add any required configure
   flags etc.

4. Add FOO to inst-sections.nsi.

5. Add detection of packages to configure.ac.  Check out the available
   macros in m4/gpg4win.m4.  Depending on the way an upstream package
   is packaged, you might need to write a new macro.

6. Add download information to packages/download.sh.

7. If the package ships pkg-config (*.pc) support files, you need add
   post install instructions to Makefile.am.  Note that *.pc files may
   be in the "runtime" directory ${pkgidir} if the package is built
   within gpg4win (or peculiarly shipped), or in the development
   package ${pkgidir_dev}.

Then run the usual "./autogen.sh" to create the actual configure file
and run configure as described above.


Version numbers
===============

We use a specific order of version numbers.  This is best shown by an
example:

  1.0.0             - The final 1.0.0 release.
  1.0.1-svn1234     - A snapshot based on SVN revision 1234
  1.0.1-svn1235     - A newer snapshot
  1.0.1rc1-svn1236  - A snapshot while preparing for a release candidate
  1.0.1rc1          - The first release candidate for 1.0.1
  1.0.1-svn1240     - yet another snapshot
  1.0.1             - The final 1.0.1 release
  2.1.1             - The final 2.1.1 release
  2.1.1-beta88      - A snapshot before the 2.1.1 release.
                      (The 88 in this example is the number of
                       commits since the last release).

The important point is that we bump up the version number before we do
an release and append a suffix to mark it as a development version.
This allows other software to use a configure check for the next to be
released version of gpg4win.



Copyright
=========

The entire Gpg4win package is

  Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2012, 2013 g10 Code GmbH

  GPG4Win is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
  under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
  (at your option) any later version.

  GPG4Win is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
  General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
  02110-1301, USA


This file
=========

Copyright 2005, 2006, 2008 g10 Code GmbH

This file is free software; as a special exception the author gives
unlimited permission to copy and/or distribute it, with or without
modifications, as long as this notice is preserved.

This file is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law; without even the
implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
